This is Jocco podcast number 83 with echo Charles and me, Jocco Willink. Good evening, echo. Good evening.
On the 19th of February
after three days of heavy
pre-landing bombardment
which attempted to destroy the
heavy fortifications that the Japanese had built.
On that day, the 19th of February 1945 in American amphibious forces,
primarily US Marines of the third, fourth, and fifth,
marine divisions along with soldiers from the US Army's 147th Infantry Regiment
landed on the island of Ewo Jima.
By the end of the first day, some battalions had it
caches the rate of over 80 percent
on the morning of 20 February 1945
Marine Corps first lieutenant Isaacs
was taken cover in a foxhole
about 300 yards from the beach when he was hit by a Japanese mortar strike.
He was severely wounded and his left arm and in his head.
He was evacuated to a hospital ship offshore
which is where he died the next day
on February 21st 1945.
And it was about two months prior to that
on December 17th 1945 that first lieutenant
Leonard Smith Isaacs had written a letter
to his two boys.
Now, I have a lot of people ask me questions about parenting.
I got four kids so two people want to know my thoughts on it.
People also obviously ask me about war
and they ask me what kind of advice I have for my son.
And I think that first lieutenant Isaacs answers many
of these questions a lot better than I ever could.
And here's what he told them in that letter.
December 17th 1944, my dear little boys,
I'm writing you today just a week before Christmas Eve in the hope
that you will get this little note at Christmas time.
All of this coming week will be holidays.
And I can just imagine the fun you will be having,
especially when you know it's just a few days before Santa Claus will be coming.
If it were possible, I would like to come down the chimney myself
and crawl right into your stocking. Wouldn't that be a surprise?
I would enjoy it even more than you.
But since your dad is far away and Santa Claus has the only rain
gears that will fly through ear, I'm afraid we'll have to let Santa Claus use them.
After all, he has so many places to go in such a short time.
I won't be able to give you a Christmas present personally this year.
But I do want you to know that I think of you all the time and feel very proud
of the way you have been helping your mother while I'm gone.
I know that it's only natural for young, healthy and strong boys like you are
to want to play and have fun all the time.
But I do want you to think about helping mummy
because it is hard for her to do everything while I'm gone.
I know that you would like to give me a Christmas present too.
So I will tell you what you can do and this will be your Christmas present to me.
Every day ask mummy if there are errands that you can do for her.
And when there are errands to run, say sure, mommy, and then give her a big smile.
Then during the day, go up to your room and look around.
If there are toys scattered all around or you left some of your clothes on the floor, pick them up.
Also, when mummy is busy trying to clean up the house,
don't leave her by herself.
But ask mummy if you can help her take care of baby sister.
If you do those things for me, that will be the finest Christmas present that you could give me.
Oh yes, and CC, are you eating your meals like a real man now?
Well, my boys, I guess you often wonder why people fight and have wars
and why lots of daddies have to be a way this Christmas time at fighting.
When it would be much nicer to be at home.
That's a hard question to answer.
But you see, some countries like Japan and Germany have people living in them, just like people, you and I know.
Those people want to tell everybody what they can do and what they can't do.
No one likes to be told how to live their life.
I know that you wouldn't like it if one of the boys in the neighborhood tried to tell you what church you should go to,
what school you should go to, and particularly if that boy would always be trying to beat up some smaller or weaker boy.
You wouldn't like it would you?
And unfortunately, the only way to make a person like that stop these sort of things or a country like
Japan or Germany is to fight them and beat them and teach them that being a bully because after all,
that's what they are, is not the way to live and that we won't put up with it.
What does all of this mean to you just simply this, my boys,
dad doesn't ever want you to be a bully.
I want you to always fight against anyone who tries to be one.
I want you to always help the smaller fellow or the little boy who may not be as strong as you.
I want you to always share what you have with the other fellow and above all my boys have courage.
Have courage to do the things that you think are right.
Never be afraid to fight for what you think is right.
To do those things, you need a strong body and a brave heart.
Never run away from someone you may be afraid of.
If you do, you will feel ashamed of yourself and before long, you will find it so easy to run away
from the things that you should stand up and fight against.
If you and lots of other boys try to do the things that dad has been talking about in this
letter, it may be that people will not have to fight wars in the years to come.
And then all the daddies in this world will be home for Christmas.
And that is where they belong.
Perhaps some of the things that I've been talking about, you don't quite understand.
If you don't, mommy will explain them to you.
She knows.
Merry Christmas and a happy new year.
God bless you.
Daddy.
And obviously, many brave American students fought for what they believed in on that tiny island of
Ewo Jima. And they suffered massive losses to gain that victory over the course of that five
week battle, 19,217 were wounded, 6,800 and 21 were killed.
And first lieutenant Leonard Smith, Isaacs, Marine, husband, father,
daddy was buried at sea.
34 years old.
.
Reading that letter made me think about another letter I had read from another parent.
And it's another letter that I find to be just an incredible guide to not only to parenting,
but to living.
And this one was written, not by a father, but by a mother.
And it's not a letter to a son, but to a daughter.
And the daughter's name was Jana.
Then the mother's name was Dr. Mejalda Hora Kova.
And she wrote the letter from prison.
And while she was on trial for treason and for conspiracy, on trial by the Soviet backed communist
government of Czechoslovakia after they had taken control of the country in a coup.
And she and her fellow so-called conspirators were jailed and tortured and then put through a grandiose
show trial. In China, she knew that she was going to be made an example of
China. She was facing death.
And the night before her execution, she wrote a letter to her daughter.
Who was 16 at the time, and this is some of what you wrote.
My only little girl, Jana, God blessed my life as a woman with you.
As your father wrote in the poem from German prison, God gave you to us because he loved us.
Apart from your father's magic, amazing love, you were the greatest gift I received from fate.
However, Providence planned my life in such a way that I could not give you nearly all that my mind
and heart had prepared for you. The reason was not that I loved you little. I love you just as
purely and fervently as other mothers love their children. But I understood that my task here in the
world was to do you good by seeing to it that life becomes better and that all children can live well.
And therefore, we often had to be apart for a long time.
That is now already for the second time that fate has torn us apart.
Don't be frightened and sad because I am not coming back anymore.
Learn my child to look at life early as a serious matter. Life is hard. It does not pamper anybody.
And for every time it strokes you, it gives you 10 blows. Become accustomed to that soon.
But don't let it defeat you. Decide to fight. Have courage and clear goals and you will win over life.
Much is still unclear to your young mind and I don't have time left to explain to you things
I would you would still like to ask me. One day when you grow up you will wonder and wonder
why your mother who loved you and whose greatest gift you were managed her life so strangely.
Perhaps then you will find the right solution to this problem. Perhaps a better one than I could
give you today myself. Of course you will not only be able to solve it correctly and truthfully
by knowing very very much not only from books but from people. Learn from everybody.
No matter how unimportant. Go through the world with open eyes. And listen not only to your own
pains and interests but also to the pains, interests and longings of others.
Don't ever think of anything as none of your business. No everything must interest you.
Then you should reflect about everything. Compare and compose individual phenomena.
Man doesn't live in the world alone. In that there is great happiness but also a tremendous
responsibility. That obligation is first of all and not being an acting exclusive but rather
merging with the needs and the goals of others. This does not mean to be lost in the multitude
but it is to know that I am part of all and to bring one's best into that community.
If you do that you will succeed in contributing to the common goals of human society.
Be more aware of one principle than I have been. Approach everything in life constructively.
Be aware of unnecessary negation. I'm not saying all negation because I believe that one should
resist evil. But in order to be a truly positive person in all circumstances one has to learn
how to distinguish real gold from tinsel. It is hard because tinsel sometimes glitter so dazzingly.
I can fest my child that often in my life I was dazzled by glitter.
And sometimes it even shone so falsely that one dropped pure gold from one's hand and reached
for a ran after false gold. You know that to organize one's scales of values means
to know not only one's self well but to be in firm and in the analysis of one's character.
But also to know others to know as much as possible of the world. It's past, it's present,
and future. In short, to understand. Not to close one's ears before anything and for no reason.
Not even to shut out the thoughts and opinions of anybody who stepped on my toes or even wounded
me deeply. Examin. Think. Criticize. Yes, mainly criticize yourself.
Don't be ashamed to admit a truth. You have come to realize even though you proclaim the opposite
a little while ago. Don't become obstinate about your opinions. But when you come to consider
something right, then be so definite that you can fight, then die for it.
As Walker said, death is not bad. Just avoid gradual dying, which is what happens when one suddenly
finds oneself apart from the real life of others. You have to put down your roots where fate has
determined you to live. You have to find your own way. Look for it independently. Don't let
anything turn you away from it. Not even the memory of your mother and father. If you really love
them, you won't hurt them by seeing them critically. Just don't go on a road which is wrong,
dishonest and does not harmonize with life. I have changed my mind many times, rearranged many
values, but what was left in as an essential value without which I cannot imagine my life is the
freedom of my conscience. I would like you my little girl to think about whether I was right.
Another value is work. I don't know which to assign the first place and which the second,
learn to love work. Any work, but one you have to really know really and thoroughly. Then don't
be afraid of anything and things will turn out well for you. And don't forget about love in your life.
I'm not only thinking of the red blossom which one day will bloom in your heart and you,
if fate favors you, will find a similar one in the heart of another person with whose road yours
will merge. I'm thinking of love without which one cannot live happily. I don't ever crumble love,
learn to give it whole and really. And learn to love precisely those who encourage love so little.
My little girl, Janna, when you will be choosing for whom your maiden heart shall burn and to
whom to really give yourself. Remember your father. I don't know if you will meet with such luck as I.
I don't know if you will meet such a beautiful human being but choose your ideal close to him.
Perhaps you, my little one, have already begun to understand and now perhaps you understand to
the point of pain what we have lost in him. What I find hardest to bear is that I am also
guilty of that loss. I've heard from my legal representative that you are doing well in school
and that you want to continue. I was very pleased. But even if you would one day have to leave school
and work for your livelihood, don't stop learning and study. If you really want to, you will reach your goal.
I would have liked for you to become a medical doctor. You remember that we talked about it.
Of course you will decide yourself and circumstances will too. But if you stand one day in the
traditional alma mater and carry home from graduation, not only your doctors to ploma,
but also the real ability to bring people relief as a doctor, then my little girl,
your mother will be immensely pleased. But your mother would only be truly happy no matter where you stand.
Whether at the operating table, at the lathe, at your child's cradle or at the work table in your
household, if you will do your work skillfully, honestly, happily and with your whole being,
then you will be successful in it. Don't be demanding in life, but have high goals.
They are not exclusive of each other. For what I call demanding are those selfish notions and needs,
restrict them from yourself. Realize that in view of the disaster and sorrow which happened to you,
Vera, Pepeck, grandmother and grandfather and many others will try to give you what they have and
what they cannot afford. You should not only not ask for it, but learn to be modest.
If you become used to it, you will not be unhappy because of material things you don't have.
You don't know how free one feels if one trains oneself and modesty.
How he or she gets a head start over against the feeble. And by how much one is safer and stronger,
I really tried this out on myself. And if you can thus double your strength,
you can set yourself courageous high goals.
Read much and study languages. You will thereby broaden your life and multiply its content.
There was a time in my life when I read voraciously. And then again, times when
worked did not permit me to take a single book in my hand, apart from professional literature.
That was a shame. Here in recent months, I've been reading a lot,
even books which probably would not interest me outside. But it is a big and important task to
read everything valuable or at least much that is. I shall write down for you at the end of this
letter what I have read in recent months. I'm sure you will think of me when you will be reading it.
And now also something for your body. I'm glad that you are engaged in sports.
Just do it systematically. I think that there should be rhythmic exercises. And if you have time also,
some good systematic gymnastics. And those quarter hours every morning,
believe me, finally, that it would save you a lot of annoyance about unfavorable proportions of
your waist if you could really do it. It is also good for the training of your will and perseverance.
Your photograph showed me your new hairdo. It looks good, but it isn't a shame to hide your nice
forehead and that lady in the ball gown. Really, you look lovely. But your mother's eye noticed one fault,
which may be due to the way you were placed on the photograph. Wasn't the neck opening a little
deep for your 16 years? Don't primp. But whenever possible, dress carefully and neatly.
Jenna, please take good care of grandfather and grandmother.
Their old hearts now need the most consolation. Visit them often and let them tell you about your
fathers and mothers youth so that you can preserve it in your mind for your children.
In that way, an individual becomes immortal and we shall continue in you and the others of your blood.
And one more thing, music. I believe you will show your gratitude to grandfather
for the piano which he gave you by practicing honestly and that you will succeed in what
Pepek wants so much in accompanying him when he plays the violin or the viola.
Please do not favor. I know that it would mean a lot to him and it would be beautiful.
And when you can play well together, play me the Aria from Martha. My rose you bloom alone there
on the hillside and then sleep my little prince by Mozart and then your father's favorite
under your window by Chopin. You'll play it for me won't you? I shall always be listening to you.
Just one more thing. Choose your friends carefully. Among other things, one is also very
much determined by the people with whom one associates associates. Therefore choose very carefully.
Be careful in everything and listen to the opinions of others about your girlfriends without being told.
I shall never forget your charming letter. Today I can tell you which you once in the
evening pinned to my pillow to apologize when I caught you for the first time at the gate in the
company of a girl and a boy. You explained to me at that time why it is necessary to have a gang.
Have your gang little girl but of good and clean young people.
And compete with each other in everything good. Only please don't confuse young people spring time
in factuation with real love. Do you understand me? If you don't, on Vera will help you explain
what I meant. And so my only young daughter, little girl, Jenna, new life, my hope,
my future forgiveness, live, grasp life with both hands.
Until my last breath, I shall pray for your happiness, my dear child.
I kiss your hair, eyes and mouth. I stroke you and hold you in my arms.
I shall always be with you.
For the next day, despite international outcry, Milada, Hora-Kova, was executed at Prags
and crack prison.
Again, there's just so much to be learned from those letters and parents.
There's so much for us to teach and I think the thing that hits me is that these are all things
that we know. We know them. We know to take care of our health. We know to wake up and exercise.
We know we should choose our friends carefully. We know we should be our own worst critics.
We know that if we have been wrong about something, we should simply admit that and move our minds
to what is right and what is correct. We know we should work hard and help people.
We know the value of freedom and we know that freedom must be fought for.
We know that we should be brave and that that is possible only through a strong body, mind and heart.
And we know all those things we know them.
Now teach them.
Teach them and live them.
Set the right example by living them.
Because our children are watching.
They're watching it.
I think you have to do more than just set the example.
You actually have to tell them.
Think about the power of these letters.
The power of these words.
But it's also a real challenge with kids.
With your own children, it's a challenge because there's a crazy, parental child psychology that's
going on here. You got the rebellion or the trying to please you or the competing for attention
or the I can't do anything good enough.
You've got all these psychological things that are going on with your kids.
And it's hard. It can be very hard just to be straight with your kids about stuff.
It can be hard not to micromanage them. That's one of the hardest things because you know so
wow all these things that we just talked about. You know them and you know that they're the best
things for your kids. And yet if you push them to intensely, they're going to push back.
Or they're going to push, they're going to head into different direction.
Because you pushed them there.
But I do think that there's some real value in taking the time to explain
what you've learned. The mistakes that you've made.
I think it's key not to so much focus on telling them how to live. I think this is the key.
It's not so much focus on telling them how to live. But telling them how you have lived.
The mistakes that you've made and how you try to live.
So that maybe they can learn from some of the mistakes that you've made without
having to learn from life itself. Which sometimes life is a much more brutal teacher.
In fact most of the time. And if you have to learn from life, sometimes you don't win.
And harsh. Yeah.
Parenting is challenging.
Part that I thought think is very important.
The most important maybe is when you said our children are watching.
So you know remember the old saying, do what I say not what I do. That doesn't work.
Because you tell someone, hey don't don't I don't know what don't smoke. Don't don't try cigarettes.
Meanwhile you smoke. They're going to be like okay don't try cigarettes. You know whatever.
You know they're always like everyday, all day, everyday they're watching. To see how to
what act. I don't know how to act. I don't know what to do in this whole. You know how like when you
walk into a party of someone you don't know. And maybe it's a really nice party or something.
And maybe it's a different culture or something like that. You're looking around. What do I
act? Are we taking off our shoes right here? Okay we're taking off our shoes. Are we are we are we eating
now? Are we waiting for a prayer or something? What do we do? What are we doing? You're constantly
looking on how to add no kids. That's their whole life. Yeah. How do I act? I don't know how to act.
So of course you're there the whole time. You got things figured out. You got a car. You got a house.
You're providing my food. You're going to show me how to act. So you start saying hey don't smoke.
Meanwhile 100% of the time you're acting in a way that allows for smoking.
I mean, maybe like okay. By the way it's the same exact thing from a leadership perspective.
Yeah. The way you act is a leader. It's not I mean that you're not going to have people that are
as moldable as a kid is. But there's no doubt. If the way you act as leaders the way your team is
going to act there's no that's 100%. Yeah. And if you act like a clown your team is going to act
like clowns. If you take your job seriously your team is going to take your job seriously. If you're
very well balanced in between those two where you take your job seriously, but you still have a
good time with the doing it your team is going to follow you with that as well. I remember when I was
a new guy in a shield balloon. I would be watching those my leaders all the time and taking you know
when they didn't do something when they didn't hold the line when they were late or didn't bring the
IP's a gear it was just yeah. You just look at him and shake your head. Now I wanted to perform
but what that meant are the people's like say doesn't matter if we really perform that well look
the boss does new and perform well. Yeah. And so you're setting your body. Yeah you're subordinates are
watching. Yeah everybody's watching. Everybody's watching. You know how people will be like you know
hey I'm the type of person that does this you know I really and everyone knows bad know you're not
we've been watching you the whole time I've known you kind of think. So yeah especially like the
boss too even even I mean you get all kinds of different people right in the in the work environment.
So you you're like driven it comes from yourself. You're like really self like motivated and stuff.
Pretty much. Yeah kind of. So it let's even if you have a bunch of self motivated people
they're still watching you like so if you're like kind of the leader and you're like hey you know
we're getting we're punctual people we get our work done early like we're this kind of and then
meanwhile you're coming in late or whatever the boss is coming in late and he's slacking you could
tell he's slacking he's passing like his job off off you know on to others and that kind of stuff.
At the very least they're gonna look at you and not have the respect it I think you should have
as a boss or whatever. Yeah the very least and that's if you have self motivated people.
But otherwise the normal situation I can't I remember feeling that all the time where I think
about this I'm not going to listen to this guy man. Yeah man it's you know what's interesting to
is just think about and I know we've done all the letters from parents especially from parents
that are you know headed for death or at least a high probability of death but what would you say
to your kids if you knew you were heading there and is it not worth telling them that at some point
while you're alive and you can you can say hey look if you know I'm alive to tell you this
stuff this is what I want you to know again now what's crazy is even with that you have to you
can't override your kids with the gack this way you can't do that you gotta approach it you got
a flank them you got a flank them you got I got a flank my kids my kid you know they're not I think
the classic example is my son he's got it to jiu-jiu right he's been trained in jiu-jiu
ten years right he's 14 he's been trained in his whole life right but he's not as good at jiu-jiu as
I am I mean he's just not because he's been trained in for ten I've been trained in for
twenty something so you can beat him I can beat him yes yes but but check it out what's funny is
I'm his dad so when I tell him a son move your hips over here dude you don't need to do that
I'm thinking myself you've got to be kidding me you've got to be kidding me that is the
content to me that's the ultimate example of your kids are not going to listen to you they're
programmed the programmed to reject you at some point they have to move on right that's the way
the species works if they just continue to take from you and they don't reject you at some point
and get away from you then you didn't do a good job as a parent because now they're relying on you
so but that comes a little price the price is that rebellion right the rebellion's going to come
and it's you know you can you can identify it you know my youngest it's so nice you know you tell
her something and she's just got the big eyes and she wants to help and wants to please and wants
to do and and understand and I'll tell you something else there's another end of the spectrum too
because my oldest daughter she went through the rebellion she's already through that and she got
through it pretty quickly to where she would like look at me and thank you and thank you
you could see it in her eyes that she's thinking he knows what he's talking about and I'm going
to listen to what he's saying now it does it's probably like a 50% right there it's not 100%
I'm not just dialing it 100% victory on telling her what to do because otherwise what's sad about
that this is what's horrible about that if you could get a child to actually do everything that
you wanted them to do they would dominate in life right because you would just say okay well you
just study hard I want you to work out I want you to do everything that I'm not doing
because I'm lazy and I fell short of my own goals you'd have to do all that stuff
they're not going to do it so you got to flank you got to figure you also got to figure
which ones are important right which ones are really important don't waste your leadership
capital on you know getting your kids to dress a certain way right that's one parents will
spend all kinds of leadership capital on getting their kids to what dresses are in the way and the
reality is I mean obviously you've got to remain taint some standard of decency and cleanliness
that's another leap by example sit you yeah yeah it is it is my daughters went through little
phase of wearing the short really short jeans or not not jeans but shorts yeah I was like okay cool
I was walking on one day at my house I had like a pair of workout shorts on or whatever
I just pulled them right up yeah and we're just walking on how do I look hey if we're going to show
off let's just show it off right I got a little something to I do squats check me out
big girls come up to the agony yeah come on stop yeah that's stopping no that's disgusting yeah
if we're showing off but let's show them off yes I'm over here on the squad but squad rack
let's sport it got it fun you apparently are falling in so let's all flaunt it let's go into town
who's coming with me yeah no no but you but you can only spend so much leadership capital on
getting these minor corrections made what you want to make sure is that they have good morals
value so go out and town they know where to draw the line on doing stuff that's good or not good yeah
you know somebody asked me a question on Twitter I didn't actually answer it fully but you know he's
okay you seem to be really black and white about good or evil but I think there's a lot of shades
of gray in there and I totally agree of course I mean there's there's massive amounts of shades of gray
in good and evil and then at some point you get to evil yeah but you go from like hey this is
bad to evil and you go from you know hey that's pretty nice to good those those are things that
exist and you want to keep your kids you know out of the evil right and if you waste all your
leadership capital trying to push them from doing okay and it's a good and doing the best and
you're going to wear it all out in my opinion if there's some parents that have done a better
job than me that's awesome and they were able to just to keep their kid five point oh and every
category across the board for their all existence without the kid turning into a crazy you know
rebel because that's what happens to some kids that get pushed that hard yeah yeah I think that
all again that all leading by example thing man is like as long as you're consistent and lead by
example they can see you know they'll see the benefits play out right in front of their face
yeah but man these again you can you can be like hey clean your room meanwhile the rest of
house including your room is messy and grab clean I tell you to clean your room all the time you never
do no how's this so when I'm my friends uh one of my best friends they've scuddy Lewis he's a cop
by the way you know on the big I know so this guy would he was never my roommate but you know I
go to his house a lot of time and he was real like client clean he was a super clean guy and he'd get
kind of mad not mad but just uncomfortable and things are dirty you know so you know if he has a
roommate or something like that and I remember thinking dang bros just got a real sensitive about
that whole thing you know being clean and they're like for real clean clean a clean clean not a
clean freak necessarily but I'm borderline borderline yes so thumbs and just from knowing them
and stuff I knew that his parents they would like you know clean his room and stuff like that
not all the time or nothing like that but they were involved in cleaning and stuff so it kind of
went opposite to what I thought you know like if your parents tell if you got taught to clean your
room from young age and you had to do it the whole time yeah I always thought that yeah that
would carry over when you're out of the house and you go to college you go live on your own
that you clean your room all the time I thought that that was kind of it but I started hypothesized
that that's not it this is what it is if your parents provide an environment of extreme
cleanliness whether you do it or they do it or both or whatever but the environment is consistently clean
when you leave that environment that's will be that'll be what you're used to it's a little mess
with you if it's not and that's and sure enough we went to the big of and you know crazy
and we go to his house and it's like museum the spotless clean not his his parents house
and I remember thinking like yeah that my little theory I think is correct yeah like if you're
used to doing it did his parents help him clean or not yes fully so here and here's the thing
because because you could also get the kid that the parents are neat freaks and the kid rebels
and just becomes a slob yeah so and yeah maybe and I'm sure there's all kinds of circumstance
that maybe do that I'm sure but I mean generally speaking the environment that you get used to
functioning also there's people there's parents that are slob's that the kids are very
neat nor do they because they don't like that yeah yeah I mean maybe and again these are all
you know I'm sure there's so many five I've never encountered that well my I think the key is here
what you can't do is just trying to push them like crazy you just have to guide them and what
is correct and what you have to really show is like the benefits of why it's good to keep things
in order you know if you're gonna spend an hour looking for your car keys just think of your
productivity at that point it's no yeah so you gotta watch out for that yeah but yeah that was
my little hypothesis I think it's true though because think about like think about just the environment
of the the consistent environment that you kind of that it someone will come from they always in a way
sort of for lack of better to create recreate that environment or try to when they leave so like
you know how like kids they come from a chaotic people yell out yeah they're gonna probably yell a lot
or let's say they don't yell let's say they never swear right they like I grew up in a household
and they don't swear and swearing like not that good when they go out they won't just start swearing
though they'll be sensitive to swearing for sure so I think if that again if the environment is
provided consistently I think that's that's gonna have a big consistency goes a long way
oh I think it's the number one thing Sarah Armstrong always says that yeah I agree with there
thousand million people you consistent right even like small little things like for my
doctor for example it's the routine is when it's time to go to bed it's brush teeth we do
stories and questions which is like just you know some stories that I mean and then questions like
basically a quiz it's like rudimentary education like solar system stuff and you make it like a
game show quiz so it's fun and then bed time that's it then sleep 100% no deviation unless we're
out but that's how you roll that's the routine consistent so now I don't get any push back
my daughter is a push back she is master in that the consistency it's up she just knows she
just go you can be playing she's she's got a little spark to her yeah I actually just got a lot of
spark to her yeah yeah there's just a ton you know as I was going through these I don't remember
where I let read the you know I don't remember where I read this letter for the first time
from Milata or a kova but there's so much good stuff in there chose your friends carefully
I mean just just when she's kicking it off you know life is hard it does not pamper anybody
that's a good thing for kids to understand yeah you know welcome to life it's going to be hard
get accustomed to it but don't let it defeat you boom yeah that's changing of your opinion one was
yeah yeah and admitting when you're wrong if I made this if I made if I had the wrong theory
that's okay yeah I'm just good for me you information here we go I'm changing that's okay
I was kind of freaked me out with politicians I think you've had this conversation before
politicians people say we've flipped flop flip flop for you and that's a negative thing
it's a negative thing if the person is flip flopping just to get votes yeah and it's not
but if new stuff comes to light and they say you know what I kind of changed my opinion on that one yeah
yeah or the culture shifts man like there's certain things that's even I mean back to your
thing with the short shorts that's I mean pointy is a little bit different but you have to
contend with yeah cultural history that's a new reality for me like in in Hawaii for example when
I grew up like just the swimsuits um we're you know sure you wear bikini but it's like a normal bikini
so I come I got a college I come here I move here I go back this is like you know 10 11 years
later I'm noticing the bikinis in there it's just way less material I'm like dang there's
they're showing a lot but everyone's just you know little kids and stuff like I'm okay and my
younger brother will live there you said that's just how this is now is like man you you wouldn't
know that's that's that's some stuff that I had to like go okay I'm not gonna expend a
natural leadership capital fighting not just my kids but fighting culture as a whole yeah that's
but then there's things that cross the line right yeah you wear in those short shorts that's
not that delay you don't want to see me in those short shorts you don't want to have that happen
so um like I said it's a good information from Captain Isaacs and from Doctor Hork over
but you know speaking of learning and teaching and questioning speaking of question time sure
I think we have a little question time to contend with you okay you're nay yeah might as well so let's uh
ask Jocco some questions let's do that I like your answers to questions Jocco
see that's kind of the good thing about knowing your phone number I could just text you with questions
like purse my own questions a gross mismanagement of your time it is potentially however I'm pretty
quick to answer yeah abruptly in short answers you know because you pretty much know what the answer
is gonna be I do and sometimes you just need that backup and that's or that that reinforcement you
know you know you know how like you're like man I really have I have in this issue with myself
whatever like I'm gonna I'm gonna ask Jocco only because it's really I'm really confused
not confused but you know I'm really I need the answer I don't have the I'm really want to I'm gonna ask Jocco and
you can be texting Jocco the answer or the question and you're like I know that answer like as I'm
reading this question to Jocco it kind of fits into it yeah so don't send it so you get about maybe
a third and like a quarter of the questions that I actually started for you yeah that's good
yeah man see good you know the Jocco effect is real question number one Jocco I keep trying to ask
around my BJJ school if anyone follows S and C program did now you just abbreviate S and C you know
what that is right no oh it's strength and conditioning okay sure all hundred percent
that's like a known thing especially for someone that's jacked like no it's not
just interesting thing condition I don't right I've never seen that you know that's maybe it'll
write that maybe I just do it that through credit just credit Mike drop you know I'm not
anyway I'm asking around my BJJ school if anyone follows a strength and conditioning program
for comps which is competition very good nicely done you're up on things everyone keeps telling
me to just roll for strength and conditioning what do you think about that okay so rolling is
obviously the base right you need to roll and that but that has to it that this doesn't mean
include rolling like we're gonna go roll however it works out it means rolling with some kind of
structure around it so you get your short rounds you got to get your long rounds you got to get your
shark tanks you got to get your positional drilling you got to get your consequence free drills
like Dean Lister makes us do consequence free drills where you're gonna start in a position where
you might get tapped out but it doesn't matter all right right or you're gonna start a position
where you might lose position but you're gonna do it anyways and and then Glover that's what Dean does
actually Glover does the consequence drills where you hear already like starting in the arm lock
yeah yeah yeah you're letting a person take your arm and you're starting there and you're just
gonna see what you can get out of it or start in the triangle not the triangle danger in the triangle
yeah that's some Jeff Glover you know we did that crap right there but it's good for you it's good
so you got to you got to do that you know and the short rounds by short rounds I mean short
intense rounds yeah right if you I'm my attitude in a three-minute round is completely different
than my attitude in a twenty-minute round or even I mean the ultimate and what believe it or not
my attitude in a twenty-minute round is different from my attitude in a no-time limit round
really yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah it's especially because in regular training even if you
get the submission if I submit you in four minutes I still got to do another sixteen so I might
go all hard for four minutes and get the submission but then I gotta go another sixteen minutes now
so I'm gonna I'm gonna have some tactical now if we're now what's different is if it's no time
limit after four minutes I get you work we're kind of done we can go again yeah but
we can just be done but if you get them in one minute we're probably going again yeah it's like
an MV it's in four minutes is probably going again too but like eight minutes so I might I might not
submit you in one minute or even four minutes because I want to get you to a point where I know
I'm just gonna have to do this one guy yeah yeah yeah the psychology uh but so yes you have to roll
now but you still need to get stronger right and a classic example this is a big Andy big Andy
Burke right great you're just you but it wasn't super strong yeah and I was I said to him hey
start doing pull-ups start doing push-ups and dips and squats just start to him and he did
he listened to me and and in a matter of a month he felt completely different because he
wasn't working on it he was just rolling and he was rolling hard core but just rolling compared
to actually getting stronger and then he went on to powerlifting and Olympic lifting and now it's
like okay I gotta contend with actual strength power here so that that definitely makes a difference
you know his skill was getting better but it wasn't I was feeling it skill getting better you know but
we're all getting better at the same time but all of a sudden he started getting stronger so strength
that's the strength part right now the conditioning part same thing due to a how's you to
rest and that's actually a positive attribute of your due to your game if you can rest while you're doing it
right that's that's one of the good that's that proves that you know what you're doing
right now that's actually a negative when it comes to working out because if you do something like
a row or a bike or a sprint or a medcon workout on a timer there and no mercy
slacking is not rewarded you're you're you're racing against the clock and so those things are
gonna push you faster for longer periods of time harder than just a role well so bottom line for
strength and conditioning and you get to yeah you gotta do you get to for sure gotta be your base
and then you've got to do strength training to get stronger that's dead and squats and clean
jerks and snatches and over at squats and all the key lifts and do that means doing singles and
doubles and fours and fives and sets of 20 I mean it means getting stronger and then you got to
work your metabolic conditioning and how do you do that you go hard you go metabolic conditions
do you do met cons right you mix in lighter weights doing more repetitions short and you got
a mix up the rounds too going short rounds long rounds to bot do you know what to bot is
to bot a protocol I don't know the exact exact number there's an exact number the exact number
for the to bot a protocol is 33 no 20 seconds of work 10 seconds of rest okay so for me that's
like the shortest rounds you're doing is 20 seconds of work 10 seconds of rest then you got all
to do long rounds and then you do you know a lot of times I do three on one off for rounds that's
a boxing right a lot of times I'm doing five on one off that's MMA and then above that you start
to get to Gittu which is 10 minutes will one off but what's interesting is if you're doing a
10 minute round and then one off and then another 10 minute round and then one off that blurs
into one big round so a lot of times when we're getting it got a guy that's competing black
belt or a or he's doing a 20 minute fight or a 10 minute fight a 10 minute 10 minute grappling
match one round of 10 minutes or one round of 15 minutes you got to have him take a bigger break
in between sometimes during the training so that they're actually coming in their fresh
and they can work through the prom again otherwise they're just going through the one hour roll
level the whole time which is not good for them and obviously you got to learn technique
you got to practice technique because Gittu is what's going to win and like I just had somebody
hit me up on social media and they said because I told a story at some point on this podcast about
rolling with a black belt girl for the first time as the first time I ever rolled
with an actual black belt girl and I was thinking you know I better bring my A game a little
bit so don't get caught here and then when I started rolling with those that's not happening
and the guy says this is this mean that you can't defeat a stronger opponent with Gittu and I
said no absolutely my watch girls lighter weaker girls tap out bigger stronger guys on the regular
but what what that situation was not only was I bigger and stronger but I'm also skilled at Gittu
yes so doesn't apply yeah and there's this element of Gittu and this actually kind of goes back to
one Andy when you know when you get Andy with his skill and technique
and then you add some strength in conditioning to it and it's like you know so what you do if you
if you don't have if you're not being strong you can't really believe anyone on the man
bully I don't mean bully bully I mean like you can't just turn on this like if you're not
yeah if you're seeing Jeff Glover but people because I have well he bullies in in a different way
like so so and that's what I mean by bully like you can't just impose your strength on someone
well I'm gonna have to disagree with you can impose your technique yeah I think yeah I mean
Jeff Glover will bully guys on the mat if they're out of line for sure yeah but in it's in a
different kind of way so you're talking about you well you can't go strength you can't just
start bullying physically bullying you have to technically bully it yes so I accept that yeah so let's
say your technique is is similar and but you have straight up weight strength and conditioning
yeah it really plays a factor first sure and not to say that you'll be able to necessarily tap
the guy out but him trying to tap you out when you have strength conditioning and size it's like
it just gets real hard no for sure and unless you will be the key component there that you
mentioned is that I have to have similar because you can be a 235 pound like guy super strong
athlete and if you don't know jjitsu Jeff Glover's gonna wrap you up like you don't even know what's
happening he's 150 pounds yeah yeah yeah well and he and I've seen him with obviously with what
roughly 100% certainty with with yeah well you know even beyond roughly 100% it is really really
close to 100% yeah if you don't know jjitsu 245 pound muscle head going against Jeff Glover you're
getting tapped out you do know jjitsu there he is yeah for sure there is a video I think is
crappler's quest I think it's still online right now Jeff Glover goes against this huge
guy yeah for sure I think yeah he's maybe like I knew some people of you who did you just
who fighter yeah it was a jjitsu match yeah and helmet it's yeah it's just crazy to watch and
that was when Jeff was like 13 or something yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah so the girl you know the
girl thing and I remember that question was on Twitter right there was like hey it doesn't
jjitsu allow you yes yeah so they get yeah perfect exact I mean that's the answer there
because yeah you have all this experience but you know how like how we always talk about like
when you lock up with someone you know you can get a really good idea of what they're about to
bring to you yeah this James Nielsen and you lock up and you're like what is it about this should
be pretty easy oh yeah getting swaps yeah you're not just happy for sure for sure so there are
exceptions for sure but generally speaking you know even just not even beyond just strength strength
and their grip and their rigidity and yeah you can feel the you can feel the either like they're
relaxed to me that's an indicator yeah someone that just like it's one of them yeah they feel
relaxed you're like okay this is this guy probably knows what he's doing yeah because the person
that doesn't know what they're doing they're going all psycho yes doing making like little micro moves
that are incorrect you know yeah just even putting their foot right there it's like bro your
foot should not be right there right now kind of thing yeah you can tell real quick yeah so but it
does go into the strength part as well so like you know when you grab someone's wrist or they grab
your wrist or something like that you're like okay because a lot of you just to this is weird a lot
of you get to is knowing what's important and what's not in pressure so you know these that's not
just you get to either because I just talked about that with with kids and with me know you
and you want to expand your leadership capital trying to get your trying to get your team to do
something that's not really truly necessary yeah that's not going to help your cause yeah it's not
going to help you and you did to if you're focused on something that's not important and to know
what's important and what's not is very important has a leader as a parent and is on the
duty to play or match yes of justice and very hard by the way it takes like a lot of experience
so you consider these guys who are like if you do a light role with a really really high level guy
that's when you can start to see okay this guy really thinks that this arm position is really
important because he'll fight till the death to kind of maintain it you know so but what the
bad just back to the girl real quick the girl situation when you lock up with someone's strengthwise
you know you feel like I said you what they're about to bring so again and when you have the
more experience you have the more you're gonna know with like more accuracy and that's what you
and actually this point of taking that point in transferring into leadership is so critical and I'll
tell you I am really good at knowing what's important and what's not and just be it and you can
see people that get all spun up about things and you know just okay they're spun up about something
the same thing with family life you know your your wife gets all spun up about something like what
we're gonna do we're gonna keep doing what we're doing we're gonna be okay you know oh you want to
focus all your time and energy on that that's fine go ahead you know that's cool I'll support you
and you can make it happen but you know think about how important something really is when you're
getting spun up about something just think about how important it really is there's a good chance
it's not that important there's a really good chance it's not that important there's usually four
five things that are really important as a leader that you need to focus on and that list the
further you go down that list the less important things are and I see leaders get spun up on
things that are listed on the list number 47 and they're acting like it's the most important thing
and it's gonna ruin everything and it's like no doesn't just not that big of a deal yeah
so learn that is that why you wear the same clothes every day you know I wear the same
because fashion is not important it's not important to me those short rounds are good when you
do short rounds in jiu jitsu and they kind of trick you too because like Jeff will do that he'll be like
three minute rounds so you have this thing in your head like oh it's only three minutes it's just
hard but meanwhile you only got 30 seconds or ask me for you gotta go again so you're doing
essentially a back on jiu jitsu and that's good that is good so for that kind of stuff yeah man it's good
yeah agree I like to say some of you got some guys say you don't need strength and
conditioning because you the more the anytime you spend doing physical activity should be on your
jiu jitsu they said that's interesting I would like to agree with that it sounds good but I would do
if I'm gonna do jiu jitsu six hours a day I'd still do strength and conditioning for 20 minutes
half an hour or four minutes that's one of the good things about jiu jitsu you can have different
philosophies and still be successful because I think like there it gets Dylan Dennis or somebody
maybe Marcel Marcel Garcia only does jiu jitsu yeah I know and Dean you still always trying to convince
me that yeah it's gonna do jiu jitsu let's say no well Dean's all crazy strong though yeah no he's
that's funny you see the fail just to jiu jitsu when I was just a jiu jitsu and I mean just I
I don't know why don't do grip strength right now I can hold him to anything for about six hours
check all right next question jiu jiu jiu jiu I have a question about leadership firefighter
and someone like guys on my department have been pushing me to step up and put in for an
officers position and I'm honored but one word one word one we were going to a call I was presented
with an opportunity to lead and pass it up I don't know what I was thinking I can't believe I did that
did I just lose credibility if I did is there a was to get that back away right that's what he meant
yeah if I did is there a way to get that back thanks okay so first of all this is just a general
rule if you want to lead always be ready to lead right be ready to step up make sure you're not stepping
on people's toes as always but be ready to lead and the way you do that is you think about you what
you do in certain situations you should always be thinking about that you should be thinking
even if you're a trooper or a follower in a certain situation you should think okay well how
would I lead what would I do right now what moves would I make what would I do if a contingency
happened right now and what are the possible contingencies that I could be looking at what are
they and if you're thinking that as a as a frontline guy when the opportunity pops up
then just jump on it boom there you go then when it does happen of course you've got to
stay detached because you want to make sure that you don't lead too far you don't overstep
your bounds and step on toes you've got to be careful that so you need to live with that mindset
and that will make you such a a better leader when the moment does come if you're always thinking
about if you're always watching like he talked about earlier I'm watching the leader I'm
seeing what they're doing I'm seeing what I might do differently I'm still supporting them
I'm supporting you if you're in charge I'm supporting you but I'm thinking I might I might do this
and then you watch what would my what would the results of my decision have been compared to what
they did so you you can be thinking like a leader even though you might not necessarily be in a
leadership position so live with that mindset that's what you need to do now as far as you
passing up the opportunity to lead which yes you're admitting was an error first of all say this it
probably it's probably not quite as obvious to everyone else as it is to you in your mind you're thinking
all man I blew it this was my chance and I bet the guys went back from that call and didn't even think about it
didn't even think about it again most likely unless it was just some playground I don't want to lead
I'm ready if you did that well then yeah people go to the other but if you just said
if you just kind of backed away from a moment people people might have realized it but anyways regardless
of that you probably guess what I'm going to say then what you're going to do is I want it
right you got to own it so when the opportunity presents itself to explain
what happened and what went wrong and what you did wrong right not making excuses but explain
where you were weak you know so you say hey guys you know hey remember that last call
I should have stepped up and I had to have the wrong mindset I wasn't ready to lead and I let
not only that let you guys down I let myself down and I'm not going to let that happen again from now on
I'm going to have leadership in the front of my mind that's what I'm going to do
I'm going to be thinking about what needs to get done I'm going to be thinking about contingencies
and how I'm going to lead and I promise the next time this opportunity comes up I'm going to be ready to lead
so I'm sorry for letting you guys down and what happened again okay that's that's it boom
get the mindset live and think as a leader regardless of what position you're actually in and then
when they call you in the opportunity presents itself step up and lead
obviously that's your default mindset now yes it seems obvious to me it is truly was it always
like that even before that story that I've told over and over again about being on an oil rig and
coming up and guys not know where to go or everything freezing and me going okay I'm just
to step back and look around and make a call and when I did that that was it and so I I want to
click it clicked or I would say I guess I was thinking about it beforehand because I was you know
observing my leaders and thinking about what they were doing and what I would do differently in a certain
situation yeah yeah it's crazy because even in everyday life which is what I represent
everyday life but you know how your life or girl whatever is like hey you know what's the dinner situation
what do you want oh I don't care whenever you want you know that's a time where I always feel this
what this guy just asked you know I mean obviously it's nothing compared to his situation but
like hey what you know what do you think for dinner kind of thing and I'm like I don't I don't care
and that's really how I feel I don't care I'm kind of down for whatever kind of thing but that's not why
that's not why she's asking me she wants me she wants me to make the decision she wants me
and it's step up and be like this what we're having for dinner I'm gonna go get her I'm gonna
make it or whatever that's what she wants and really those little this those that situation
comes up all the time that's a good point just like you know the old that the joe actually that's kind
of like a joke you know when you ask a girl when it goes as or when you ask a girl hey when you
want to eat and she says I don't I don't care whatever and then you say okay we're gonna go eat here
and then I really like that of course see yeah you gotta yeah I feel like this guy when I do that
that's the point so for now when you're gonna step up and leave I'm gonna do it yeah but I
want it to be my default is why you know like yours is like your default like you know all this
will do it yeah okay you know what I wish that was true with when it did come to dinner
actually it's a lot of it kind of is true because I only go to like three places to eat yes
and I go to one 80% of the time yeah so the other 20% of the time so if she says where you
want to go I'm gonna say that my restaurant yeah we're gonna raglands and I'll be too
far here but that makes it harder the right way that she like raglands though she does she does
which makes it easier yeah but and if she doesn't feel like it then she'll be like I don't
really want to go there okay cool now it's on you I gave you my vote right now you don't want to do that
but I think you still gotta do it you still gotta make the decision you gotta like because in
a way I'm in the same boat as your second scenario there like if she's out of there so
I'm gonna do that I'm just gonna name my secondary restaurant all right there you go
maybe she'll say yes maybe she'll say no well that gotta be my default now though
step up the lead you know what I you know what I gotta do I gotta prepare I gotta prepare myself
will yeah I gotta have like five options just ready to go on deck that's what I have three
so that's not what you want to do and they all come to the same order
I must be really boring hey you focus on what's important that's good well whenever my wife says
uh you know tell you everyone want to try anything new I said nope yeah I don't I don't yeah
speaking of which darling you're my girl not looking at something new I'm at the same thing very
happy yes that's actually that I'm gonna use that one there but what do you do when the team wants
to try something new all right let's do that all right good tips all right next question
jockel i'm a sergeant in my country's army the reason that i'm sending you this message is
because of a tragic incident in our unit this week a young enlisted soldier committed suicide
he shot himself with his issue rifle this came as a shock to all of us he was a bright
smart and happy guy damn i'm seeking your advice jockel do you have any advice on how I as a leader
can talk to the guys about it how does a group of soldier soldiers cope with a loss when the reason
is so tragic thank you and and obviously condolences to the team the and the family of the soldier
and i think what you have to do in this situation is you got to as a leader you got to bring
me out in the open i think one of the worst things you can do is pretend that it didn't happen
pretend that the problem's gonna go away and i think what you have to do is you have to explain it
which is weird because in this case explaining it means admitting that you can't explain it
because you can't explain it or you're not gonna be able to you're gonna be making up
something that you're guessing at right you're not gonna know what individual what individual
situations caused this to happen you know because who can make sense of that i mean a bright
smart happy guy it doesn't make sense and and and won't you can't explain why you i think you
have to address it as a reality and i think you got to address it as something that your
pulltune needs to fight against just like they would fight against the enemy
well what is the threat the threat is depression the threat is loneliness the threat is helplessness
the threat is feeling like there's no way out and being aware of those threats
is what allows recognition of the enemy so that you can fight them so i think you got to talk
about this with your guys i think that they will become aware of what they need to look
out for in others and in themselves so they can alert the platoon that you know joy if you
guys talk to johnny man he seems you know johnny seems a little off right now we should check in on him
we should talk to him or self recognition man i'm feeling like depressed about something i'm feeling
dark it doesn't i don't know what i'm gonna do right and on that last podcast that we did
i read a couple excerpts in words from some various combat veterans
and i touched on the fact that several of them from different times from different wars had
written the same thing and they wrote basically that death would be liberating and that it would
be an escape from the hell of war from the memories of war and and i should have hit on that
harger because i i think that what that means to me what that tells me is that
is that having those thoughts doesn't necessarily mean that there's something wrong with you
right it doesn't necessarily mean that you're losing it these you know the the writings that
i'm talking about the book and the writing from a guy that i knew doesn't mean that you're losing it
and i think that people think to themselves oh i'm i'm thinking about how death would be an
easier way right now and and and they think that by thinking that they're they're totally screwed up
when i think the realities that is or i'm in think the reality of the situation is that that's
obviously a fairly normal thing to think about and you know i i when i was in Ramani
i i definitely i i wasn't thinking about killing us but i definitely saw that dying in combat
was would be a relief to the stress that i was under no doubt and and i didn't want to die but i'll
say what we joked about it i joked about it with life i'd be like if we get a firefight tonight
first thing to do is crack a green cameland on my chest so the enemy knows exactly where i'm
like we're joking because we're under a lot of stress but i think my what i'm trying to say is that
those feelings or those thoughts don't mean that you're done they just mean that you're human
um they just mean that you're human and i think if you keep them bottled up
then they might explode so that's what i think you need to do i thought so i need to tell
your men that these thoughts happen and that your platoon your team needs to be on guard against them
and the best way to be on guard is to be vigilant to look for the signs to look for behavior
and talk about them and then be able to ask for help it's one of the big problems
guys i want to ask for help because we're macho i don't need help with anything we are egos
are too big so we don't ask for help and so we have to put our egos in check we got to pay attention
to each other and there's going to be some people that you're going to have to pry this out of them
right they're not going to willingly talk about it so i think that's what you have to do so that you
can get somebody some professional help i'm not a psychiatrist obviously and and in a normal
infantry platoon there's no psychiatrist in there but you need to recognize because you're the
first line of defense and how can you get that somebody to a professional that can help them
and to be honest this doesn't only apply to soldiers right it applies to everyone
don't let these thoughts fester in your brain you got to get them out you got to put them out
the light right you got to put them out the light so they so they dry they're like a vampire
they dry up and they whither and they they turned to dust you know that's what you want to
your exposums you can get the professional help and get things under control so
that's the leadership be straightforward with your troops tell them the truth explained the
enemy threat that's what we're talking about and how you as a platoon are going to look out for it
and then obviously you got to grieve the loss you got to mourn your fallen comrades and then
you also have to get back to work get back to soldiering get back to preparing
for the enemy that you will face on the battlefield with with a new awareness that there's a
another enemy that can lurk inside lupiltoon and inside the individual and that you have to protect
each other just like you protect each other from a real enemy so that would probably be the
route that I would go good luck brother with that sis uh it's a hard one for sure
next question juggle my leader is not an extreme ownership disciple among other things he's
fostering division within our team how do I help lead those who no longer trust in the commander
but are awesome guys who want to stay involved how do I bring them back into the fold without
threatening our lead or our dear leader all right well first of all you got to become a buffer
between your boss and your team that's what you need to do um trying to absorb as much
negativity as you can and make sure you don't spread that negativity right this and also this is a
delicate situation that we've talked about before if you completely support the boss
and and and act like the boss is the greatest person in the world the team is going to reject you
or there's a like a high likelihood that they're going to reject you at the same time if you completely
reject the boss then you've actually aided in dividing the team because now the team is not
aligned with the boss so you have to balance you have to balance us in one of the best ways to do this
is to put listen that's you got to put the importance of the mission and the team above the
ego's an attitude so here's I'm gonna say something like look guys look guys I know we have
our differences with the chain of command on some things but we have a job to do all right we have
a mission to accomplish and even though we might not agree with the boss on everything it's our team
it's our team and the performance of the team sure it reflects the boss but it reflects us too
so what I say we do is win let's let's win let's be the best regardless of what the boss does
oh what the boss says let's win to prove to prove that even with a situation where the leadership
might be lacking a bit we're so good that we're gonna win anyways who wants to get some of that right
there you go let's win despite poor leadership that's what we're gonna do any and I'll tell you
what in my younger and maybe a little less politically savvy days I want to say something like let's win
not just despite our leadership but let's win two spite our leadership like we would just perform
so well in the face of a horrible leader we're gonna show everyone what was up the underdog
Cinderella story we're gonna rock so that's cool you know sometimes you're you're winning
not just despite your leadership but two spite them I'm done that a couple times in the
career not not the better not the best one it's better to win despite them so despite we
we got some rough leadership it's okay and the other thing is you know even when you're doing that
with a bad leader you still got to be careful that step in the leaders toes and the way you do that
is really easy you give them all the credit you give them all the credit and that's great and that
little nagging voice that you got in the back your head that wants credit you know that one I'm talking
about that you go back there don't worry about that I'm telling you right now you will get the
credit in the long run you will get the credit don't worry about it you might not get the credit on
this one or even this week this month maybe not even this year but eventually you will get the credit
and recognition that you deserve that you want because your boss's boss he knows what's up he knows what's
up and your troops know what's up and so when everybody knows what's up when you have a truly
bad leader the truly bad leader doesn't they're not they're not just walking around fooling everyone
in an organization it's not happening it's not happening and if it does happen it doesn't happen
for long it only happens there's a limited time that it can happen for because every every
idiotic move that that leader makes down the chain of command at least one out of every five
he does some stupid up the chain of command too and so how is that group performance so well
we know it's not the leader he's an idiot oh they must have some good junior leadership in
there who's those guys oh that's echo Charles these and charge that squat and they're crushing it
so don't worry about that just lead and win and give that credit away and it's gonna come back
to you tenfold that's what you do kind of in a way goes back to like people are watching
they're watching yeah he's a poor leader he's a poor leader people are gonna pick up on that
yeah and they're not gonna you know that doesn't mean that the boss's boss is gonna advertise that
because the boss's boss they're a good leader so the boss's boss is gonna come and undermine them
yeah no but when the time comes for emotion when the time comes for a reorganization
that's gonna be happening you know that's where that that's really just means are gonna be made yeah
but we get so wrapped up we get the ego gets you yeah ego gets you yeah kind of watch out for that thing
yeah to truly let it go when you don't get the credit and you for real think that you deserve the credit
the truly let it go there's the challenge yeah that's a challenging one
relish in that challenge laugh at it yeah you know good boss you did awesome good job
yeah because I feel like anyway when that does happen you know and so and it's not even
necessarily someone else gets the credit for what you did it's just that like something big happen and
it just went completely unnoticed that that it was straight up because of you right that's a
potential scenario but let's say you don't you don't say anything I think that there is a small
feeling of satisfaction that you're like you know you took the hero in the same I you know
completely get that feeling maybe that's my ego yeah let me look at me over here I'm not even saying
anything I'm giving away so much credit I'm the man that's like the perfect amount of ego
or perfectly directed ego but because usually it's a clip by the fact that you didn't get your credit
yeah usually yeah yeah for sure that's hard I want the credit got to work on that
check next question I have a question about the warrior mentality I recently was dumped on a
deployment and it's difficult now that I'm home state site how does a warrior handle this is it like
any other emotional loss I'm trying to use this loss and get after it and improve myself mentally
and physically not sure how to properly submit questions to the podcast all right so the deer
John letter the old classic deer John letter and so you know agree sometimes you can keep it
bay when you're deployed but then when you get home and you get back to the places the familiar
places where you have the specific memories that's that's where the pain start to come in
and that's fine you know that's that hurts that's we get that but in my opinion I've said this
before the person that you built in your mind the person that you had relationship with that you built
in your mind that person doesn't actually exist they're not real they're not real she wasn't who she
appeared to be and she isn't who she appeared to be she isn't the sweet understanding fun person
that you cared so much about that's not her that's your memory that's what you built in your head
she is actually the self-self centered person that cares about herself first and doesn't care
about you that's the reality and that's fine but a lot of times the pain that we feel isn't
based on the reality it's based on the fantasy so you're feeling pain of losing something that wasn't
real so let the fantasy go remember that she is not the perfect person that you built in your mind
period she's not otherwise we wouldn't be in this situation right now and then move on brother
get after it work out train hard go to the kitchen to hike run a blanket hard just get after it
and those things not only are you going to distract you from the pain which is good they're going
to improve you as a human being which is good and they're going to rebuild your confidence which is
good they're going to make you feel good they're going to make you stronger and smarter and better
and put you into a place where you don't need that little made up fantasy anymore and they're
going to put you into place where you're going to find something better than the fantasy now i'm
going to tell you right now the fantasies don't exist the perfect girl or guy for you doesn't exist
they don't exist so you're going to be out looking for someone that's good but you're not going
to find perfect don't get obsessed with finding perfect if you find someone that's perfect it's
it's not true everyone's got their flaws so that's what you have to do and you will end up
finding someone that's real and I get it man I know you're going to have some moments down in the
hole as Alice and chains put it or trapped in the heart shaped box as Nirvana put it
or so lonesome you could cry as Hank Williams senior put it is that you notice a theme here
this is what people go through but those feelings their temporary so let them say hi
let them hang around for a minute or for half an hour an hour or whatever and then kick them out
kick those feelings out get them out of there and go do something else take your mind away from
those memories of fantasies and put build some good memories that are real and yeah you know what
you can use your anger and your frustration to fuel positivity for sure I spent much of my youth doing
that very thing for sure all those breakups yeah I turn those things into fuel and the other
thing I'm telling you is if you take actually your body your mind's going to fall and pretty soon
you'll be on to the next chapter and you can move beyond this bad fantasy chapter that you
kind of got roped into. I can get you every time if you let them. It's so hard to
end with so many times you know because when I was a system to a commander a two-in-commander
task commander what I was doing right but more in the earlier phases right because once I was
you know a task you're a commander I was dealing with a lot less those those problems that would
come to me on a relationship level would be something big you know divorce custody of children
some kind of domestic violent scenario like real things but when I was younger
and I was in a seal platoon that's when you're dealing with guys going through the breakup with the
girl and that you know the method with my head man yeah it's messing with my head man yeah of course
every guy goes through that me you ever that's the way it is you get that weird thing
kicking around in there and you start getting crazy and what's so fun is what's so funny is
when you're on the outside of it it's so like when you're in the heart shaped box to yourself
you just can't see anything else it's just devastating and everyone that's looking at you is like
bro let's just go to the bargainite you've meet 17 new girls tonight yeah but I've like a back
guy like that was my girl that was my special girl no it's not I remember I kind of had a this
is kind of evil but I had a kind of a standard response to guys when they'd say you know
hey you know I broke up with Jennifer last night I mean oh sweet man let's let's roll I would always
and I even carried that honestly this is like not something I don't think I would do anymore but
even when guys who would be like hey man me and Jennifer are getting divorced a bit oh right
oh bro you're asking that's rockin' roll you know I kind of and part of it was just to kind of
spin it like guys man it's not that you need you don't just wallowing it right you're getting divorced
okay here's what you need to do here's how you maneuver but you know what are you going to do
you're going to get dragged down by that into that mire or you're going to you know salvage
what you can of your life and let's move on let's rock and roll yeah so that's again it might be a
little harsh I don't know that would still have that react maybe with maybe false still in the
dude you know and most and 99 I had one guy that that that in I probably said that to
we have a height of horse rate in the sealed teams yeah it's like an 85 90% of horse rate so I've
said this too quite a few individuals over there I only had one that ever kind of you know was
was like no man you don't get it I said no actually I do get it you don't get it yeah and it always
is a little rough ruiners kids involved in all that so that would put another little horrible
spin on it but the bottom line is that is a good attitude to have hey broke up with my girl
right on I'm glad I got out of this relationship before it developed into something where I did
have hooks in me yeah financial hooks children yeah all those things I made it out scop free
you know I'm getting divorced oh you have any kids no okay rock and roll yeah you got kids okay
well how's it gonna go you know what do you put in line yeah you know I'm so yeah definitely hard
here's the question have you ever gotten your heart broken the negative you haven't straight up
even in of course I have broke I was I was a boy boys get their heart broken when went tell me
oh 10 11 yeah that I'm talking like no I'm 21 ish time because you know when you're 10 it's like
okay 15 14 17 13 I mean I think once I was I was I see once I was in the sealed teams I kind of
had that coping mechanism yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah but yeah the y'all that's you know the younger days for sure
every guy goes through that and that's what that's what's hard and you know what I'm saying guys
specifically but the girls are the same way both guys and girls go through these horrible breakups
when you and and this is the other thing that we got to realize as parents when you're 16 years old
we you know I look at my 15 16 17 year old daughters right as they were grown up and and I think oh they
got a boyfriend whatever he'll be it's this guy is meaningless in their lives I factually know
that these guys are meaningless in terms of the broad spectrum of their life yeah but guess what when
you're 15 years old and you got a boyfriend that is your whole life and so when something goes sideways
I had to say oh I'd remember that myself when I saw my daughters distraught over something I'd
say okay here's what's going on this is her whole life and I tried to explain to him this
guy I understand that you like him and that he was good and blah blah blah but you know let's
remember you're only 15 and there you know you're gonna meet another nice guy and other there'll be
other opportunities and blah blah blah but of course barely barely gets through to their heads
yeah hopefully they can't even imagine a nicer guy is different I know because he's the
bad no and so yeah yeah you're on that question restriction from now on no I'm not
ready to know I think we all want it to know next question juggle what's your take on false
motivation versus authentic leadership okay false motivation versus authentic leadership
and others two kind of two kind of ways of understanding this question the first is from like
a really heavy leadership perspective and that is of trying to lead without actually believing
in what you're doing and that's leading without understanding why and not believing in what you're
doing and that's wrong right and this is an extreme ownership of course and we talk about
on the podcast you can't do it if you don't believe in what you're doing your team is going to
see that and they won't believe in it either which means they're not going to go above and
beyond to accomplish the mission period so you got to believe what you're doing and if you don't
believe it then you got to ask the question up the chain of command find out why understand why
so you believe in what you're doing and eventually you're going to get the answer right
eventually you're going to understand why you're doing something you're going to believe in it
or you're going to you're going to convince the chain of command that that's not a good method
then you need to go a different direction and there might be some rare in extremist case where
you actually don't you know you're I'm being told to do something I don't believe in it
and I'd say no I'm not going to do it in like Napoleon said Napoleon's maximums if you
you you actually have to refuse to do it if you don't believe it's the right thing to do then you
don't do it that should be if very in extremist because or as a leader when we're being
asked to do something or told to do something or led in a certain way they're leading us towards
victory right they're leading us towards an aligned victory if it's on the battlefield
that's winning the war if it's in business it's creating profit and creating a product and
growing the business right those things are that's what you're trying to do so if echo if
I'm the boss and you come to me with something and say hey I want to do this
if it's going to make us more profitable why would I say no right so we're going to move in that
direction so from a high level false motivation doesn't work if you don't believe in something
it's not going to work out for you now from a micro level from like a front line level and the
buds and structures used to joke about this that false motivation is better than no motivation
have you heard that is that a common expression false motivation is better than no motivation
and we don't want that to be true right because we want motivation to be this pure golden thing
that fuels performance but the fact the matter is and of course we talk about all this all the
time motivation doesn't hold up right motivation doesn't how many motivated people motivated people
motivated people didn't make it through seal training a ton of them they're all motivated
you how many of them did it make you training a ton how many motivated people do you see
that don't accomplish their goals that they have right the world is full full of those people
there's a ton of those people and that's because motivation doesn't hold you up we all know this it's
discipline that holds you up it's discipline that gets things going and it's discipline that gets you
through things but this is an interesting little spin if you have the discipline to press on
why don't have a little fun with it right and that's what I think false motivation can
can come in and it can make something fun for instance it's cold wet and miserable and we have to
go swim over the beach and do an operation let's get some or it's 118 degrees with massive
humidity and we have a 14 kilometer patrol to get to target let's get some right do yeah
or the water is 41 degrees and we air about to launch on a four hour dive right hell yes let's do this
right that that's false motivation but it's backed up by discipline and it might not be real but
it absolutely beats the hell out of this is could be miserable that I want to do it right what would
you if you and I were going to go do something that was going to suck would you rather have me say
echo I really don't want to do this but I'm disciplined to him going to do it oh would you have
rather have me say echo this is going to suck let's go get some right you rather have the false
motivation yes sir strap on the pack and put on the mask and fins and fire up the false
motivation now I will tell you this I wouldn't even be sarcastic with false motivation I won't
even blink and I actually my this is the difference my my false motivation isn't even false I
actually believe my own false motivation yeah it's working and by the time stuff came out of my
mouth I meant it I meant it so I don't know at some point in my childhood false motivation
turned into like an actual fuel and just just regular motivation maybe it's because I realized
that I wasn't counting on it to get me through things I was just having fun with it rock and roll
do you think also how you know how you like you'd always say that you're kind of into just
being hardcore even if like normal stuff whatever so you know when you think back and you're like okay
I'm going to take the hard route or whatever after you finish it you kind of feel more proud of it
first like do you think that that played into it yeah that is like like a me yeah for sure
for sure be more hardcore yeah like like I said like the meaning of the meaning of the music hard
core when I was a kid was being hardcore yeah just the actual meaning of the word and so yeah it's
really easy to go from that to like hey I'm going to do something that sucks and I'm going to have
a good time with I'm going to laugh about it yeah and that and it is contagious you know so
contagious I'm actually not like that now and if we're just saying you're going to like that I'm actually
like that now okay not to you know 100% but in a lot of things man like my um my daughter she's
four she weighs 45 47 pounds so I'll be sitting or I'll be laying on the couch not paying
attention she'll climb up on the couch behind and jump in land like you know what a knee drop is right
yeah atomic knee drop yeah for a while just so you know for a while in my house there was no rules
in my house no actually there was no there was only two rules in my house when my kids were like
when my older kids were like you know seven six whatever that those types of ages that your
daughters out right now but a little bit older there was two rules in my house number one don't touch
me when I'm eating number two no atomic knee drops they would do it to each other oh yeah I
didn't mind them doing it to me but they would atomic knee drop each other yeah so I had to have two
rules and plus I would never a lot of time to eat and all of a sudden it's like they want to hold
on my arm no no no no no you're wasting you when I'm eating like a rabbit dog and it's funny one
of them the reason that's fresh in my mind because we were just on a trip and you know my
kids were explaining to my youngest daughter that well you know when we were little dad was
meaner and he wouldn't let us touch him when he was eating like you just did and of course I said well
that's because she's cute or than you are all of you I don't mind the atomic knee drops anymore
because of you because of the various things like you got to be hardcore it's because of like
okay you got four year old kid yeah right so I think I have fun that is for her to
I talk to you drop you yeah which is the other reason why I'm like this now so she'll
climb on the couch atomic knee drop while I'm not ready by the way yeah my to my ribs so
she didn't break my ribs she didn't injure me to any blasting degree but if the normal
mindset is like why did you jump what did you do that it hurt yeah it's face it 45 47 pounds
top of a couch atomic knee drop both knees by the way all the way you know the last city all that stuff
hurt by the normal standard of things so the typical mindset I think would be like
don't do that especially the shock and all this stuff but default is just like whatever you
factor yeah yeah yeah sure it is a catch-to-one too because she will and does and but she thinks
it's all fun and all this stuff but yeah that's that mindset and that you came directly from you
like be like it's like juggle wouldn't complain about that right there oh you won't let that happen
yeah it's really embarrassing if you complain to your four year old dog you hurt about anything you
hurt about anything yeah about anything yeah about anything that's that's that's the setting example
you're talking about earlier yeah you complain about anything and you're wrong agree that's so just suck it
up yeah say bring it on false motivation which becomes real motivation which for the only the like I
said the only sort of reason for motivation for me is just funny just funny it's not going to
actually get you to do anything but just let's have fun I'm going to do it anyways I'm going to
let the atomic knee drops happen over and over again I'm going to and so why when I could go through
life just experiencing them and accepting them why not have some fun with the atomic knee drops
a long cold dives and those hot weather and the you know dehydration and the my profile why not have
fun with all those things yeah and I mean you probably know but it's unbelievable how much that
helps you know what I think maybe because my view of motivation is so low yeah that to me it's just funny
like false motivation like just funny yeah and and it but it is fun yeah it's a fun thing
yeah that's all and that's kind of part of what I mean case so that you know the the mats I don't know if
you noticed I brought the mats in there so those mats there I think just like 16 of them
I forget how many but they cover a two full two car garage cover is it perfect it's a lot of
mats and the two inch thick ones so to move them you know up you know the topography is that even
so you had so you had like some legit challenge yeah yeah I'm not even saying that here's not
enough here here this is what happened so I came in put the mats right there boom one day I
don't know whenever the other day and then you know I walked the jay's office or brother you
know he was like oh hey what what are you doing there I was like oh I just put the mats in here he's like
you put the mats in here what do you you what did someone help you with that I looked at
I mean I said I don't need help but it was a joke because that's a line from this thing but um
but the point there is just that that attitude you know like no I don't need help no I don't you
know because I'm trying to be like jockel you know fucking hard core I don't need help little kids
can hurt me they can make me complete you know it's like that mindset but it's that is
change you're certainly into a complete savage but little kids can't hurt you and you can carry
the mats by your own yeah and you know that's another thing that's another little expression I
just because my son when he was could before he could talk well he would you know he would
want to do something he'd say let me say I do it by my own right I started by myself or on my own
yeah mixed up by my own so that became a thing here's a legitimate one that that just changed it
changed the specific thing where you know how I'd like I'd be the kind of fighting getting
enough sleep I just I'd let it ruin me so if I didn't have something specific like um
uh important to do so just throughout the day I'm tired you know whatever so now I never admit
that I'm tired yeah that's a good great starting place yeah I've explained myself I've explained
not to my son is is you just don't admit ever that don't let those words come out of your mouth
yeah I'm tired I'm sore I'm whatever just stop you get in the teams you that's just that's just
a putting up a red flag of being a complete pans don't do it don't do it as matter fact
you know what's jacked up is like I won't even let's say you and I would go out let's say
was wintertime and you and I would go out and I had a sweatshirt with me because I knew it
might get cold but what I would already and I have the sweatshirt in my hand I won't even
put it on you can't put it on yeah because then you then you might say like were you cold
I'm cold I need some more yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
yeah I'm gonna do that too or I should have said not do that yeah proud I don't remember the time
remember so I pick a told this story before remember time we're driving from L.A. it was like late at night
and you're like yeah I know I'm this big bad team guy or whatever but I'm kind of tired right now
and then almost like you just it was painful to let the words out of your mouth you know like you let
them slip in it really hurt you so it was like maybe like three seconds later you said
fuck it I'll just drive them on tanner if I have to right now I'll just get in the mud
I don't want to see you guys but I was tired yeah I was driving and my wife says like
are you you haven't been sleeping much are you okay to drive I was like yeah
and I actually did the same thing I was kind of like well I'm super tired I can drive indefinitely
I don't know though I mean you I don't know maybe you're different maybe not but that's the
actually no I don't encourage people doing that yeah don't encourage it that's a that's a horrible
thing to do is drive when you're super tired yeah yeah don't do that but I'm quiet it's
it's having to be for but I'm quiet it's really boring to drive because so easy it's just so like you
don't so when you get like tired or sleepy whatever it's really easy to just fall asleep super easy
and that's hard because you can't control it it's like you think you can just I can control it
and sure there is little tactics like you can like hard to do little things that you know
and like paint on yourself whatever but man it's really hard to control it once you fall asleep
yeah no don't do that don't do that you wake up in a bridge in the bunkman just yeah
dead or wake up dead yeah yeah it's my good the I was reading this thing on motivation
and it said in this book I'm not saying that this true or not true but it said it made sense
where motivation people misuse word motivation and they confuse it with inspiration so
inspiration is like when someone gets y'all revved up to do something right so you're saying like
what you know let's do this or you see a mansion now you're inspired to work hard for stuff
whatever listen to some speech some quote unquote motivational speech it inspires it doesn't
motivate you motivation is your your bare raw motive the motive for you doing it so let's say
I feel like I said this before but the let's say I want to get in shape you know girls will
get in shape for their wedding you know that's the motive is to be in shape for the wedding
okay so that doesn't go away so she's not necessarily inspired meaning she's like um she
got infused with some healing you know you just find motivation wouldn't go away but it would
well it's no here's the moment we get there is discipline yeah yeah yeah yeah because the
motivation she wakes up at five o'clock in the morning you go get a workout in where she goes to work
it's really easy to just be like you know what I'm not feeling motivated today right right
I'll just get the get the wedding dress you know let out a little bit yeah but that just
means that the motive motivation the motive isn't strong enough to overcome her feelings
that's right don't rely on it yeah you're not gonna find a motivation that's strong enough
to make you do the things that you have to do all the time you don't you can't does an
exact kind of well it depends it just depends so consider a fighter stop consider a fighter
with a fight he has to make way bro yeah you're right guys don't make a fight I don't make
wait I'm saying that's what I'm saying though the motive and you know what you're not
with that you know in that motivation failed that motivation failed you know five weeks ago
when they when they five guys burgers yeah they had a five-guards burgers yeah you're right
so this one holds a line yeah it does totally now you can have fun with it and you can be
motivated to have discipline and you can say oh like Pete Robbins from origin geese I was up
with him in Maine and he's like got a bet to lose weight and he hit me with some false
motivation because we were out we were out and you know we were in order I was ordered
big steak and just getting after the grub and I said like how many more pounds do you
have you know we're talking about as I get a kind of soccer situation he's like no I
actually enjoy watching you eat delicious food you know you go to false motivation
coming out but in a funny way yeah and instead letting it out like that instead of being just
miserable why not just have some fun with it yeah yeah that's my advice yeah fully but then the
difference though like I said I agree you're right I mean the point I was maybe making was uh
was just the technical difference between motivation and inspiration you know how it's a
can we not talk about that you would it be you know because both those words just don't
get a much for me there's flimsy the week yeah the week words and the week and the and the actual
subjects are weak inspiration all right the vacation like it's not gonna get you there come on
it might get you through like the first three minutes of a you know you and I were just talking
before you came in here you said there was moments in your workout today when you put it easily
or yesterday you could have easily called it okay I mean I'm sweating I got a good workout but
you didn't you have the wine this one discipline it was actually I created false one it just
truth be told you right but I've created false motivation for myself I said you know what I'm
gonna I'm gonna do this actually it's the way for me to facilitate discipline for myself is I want
to do this because I'm gonna feel better afterwards you know that whole deal you're talking about
discipline then you contrast it with how junk I'm gonna feel if I don't weak embarrassed for myself
by the way and when I said that you know how workout has many opportunities to stop yeah so one
the first opportunity is in the parking lot in this case I went to a gym so bro if you walk away
when you're in the parking lot you got issues so I've done that I've done that like four times
and then I did admit that on the podcast you should just lie
I'm the left what makes this current story okay more significant so boom that's the first opportunity
second opportunity is before you warm up which is pretty close to the first opportunity before you
warm up you ever quit then yes oh my god twice one time it felt real good because I justified it
very effectively in the second time I was like I just got to get after it tomorrow whatever nonetheless
then then it's after the first body part or the first sort of you know you have I'm gonna do you know
Macon first I'm gonna do spots first so you know it's after the first exercise the body part really yeah
yeah okay that's one opportunity like to me the biggest hurdles getting there which is when you
have your Jimmy or house that's that turtle's gone I agree that it gets easier to hold the line for
sure after you start but there's a part at the end you know how like how you just said you like to do your
magnet like afterwards no lately I've been doing Macon before and lifting heavy after right
yeah that's what I'm sure but you're right I could say you know what that Macon was a little bit heavy
yeah we were just calling good on the heavy part yeah exactly right and I feel so good when I'm
all loosened up yeah so I'm same deal with me and I you know every opportunity to quit
was passed was we've well done echo Charlie yeah that's a question yeah I got time for one more yes
juggle I am a chronic excuse maker how do I stop making excuses this is actually pretty simple
and I said at the other day and you have to realize you have to know you have to accept
that all your excuses or lies they are lies all of them think about the things
that you tell yourself the lies you use to rationalize taking the easy road
taking the easy road and leaving discipline behind think about them you don't have time
that's a lie you don't have support that's a lie you don't have the equipment or the gear
lies you don't you don't know the best way who cares that's a lie or you're too old or you're
too young of course you're too old or too young lie and there's you're too busy sure you are
that's a lie and you're too tired or you're too sore or you're just plain not feeling it
lies lies lies and the list goes on and on and on and it doesn't stop if you don't make it stop
so recognize recognize the excuses are not valid they are they are trumped up they're conjured up
they're fabricated they're lies and how do you stop the lies you stop the lies with the truth
the truth the truth will set you free the truth will stand and the truth will deliver you from
procrastination and laziness and the downward spiral that comes with a lack of discipline
so don't believe the lies believe the truth and the truth is you have time you have the skill
you have the knowledge and the support and the will power and the discipline to get it done
so cast out the lies burn them down and listen to the truth and live the truth and go out and get it done
and I think that's all I've got for tonight so echo you know speaking of the truth
could you perhaps explain to us how to support this podcast if we want to if we want to
share what you can do is support yourself I think I made this analogy before you know in the
aircraft right pre take off they go through the safety instructions in the event of cabin pressure
loss yeah oxygen tank mask comes down put on yourself before you can all that I mean that's a good
kind of thing where you support yourself then you can help support others so support yourself
this is how with supplementation like it and again I'll say this again I'll say it every day if I
am compelled if I motivated to inspire you the way I'm now into supplements not a bunch but before
I was like no supplements you just get good nutrition anyway so real oil and I think this is a
daily thing by the way and I think you can maybe relate I think daily on how happy I am that I take
cruel oil and it's I don't like thank my lucky star nothing like that I'm just saying there are
daily things that it's on my mind that I'm like this experience would be different if I did not take
cruel oil straight up that is true so I got a so I back my car into the garage loading mats
the oh yeah that that was another time but this was more recently so it's getting filling you know
you fill up the five gallon things a water yeah and I talk about that so I'm putting like you
got a maneuver it because I said in the garage I should have pulled out but whatever
maneuvering a hard core man big times so I'm maneuvering got to take it out and I don't want to
you know so you you start to explain but you know when you're in big space
whatever but everyone's true it's applicable everyday life the cruel oil isn't just for
deep squats heavy it's for taking five gallons of water in a jug out of tight spaces where you
got a kind of twist you know yeah because you don't want the car door to hit like the other
car door to dent it good time to have the cruel oil in you yeah man and really that's well
that's part of the payoff is what big part is the everyday things
true for sure yeah there'd be times where I would be sitting down a long time and I stand up
and I'm surprised on how little pain I feel not pain you know what I'm saying yeah but you
have been like that where you think like yes I'm gonna feel like oh this this is gonna be
stiff or this is gonna be heard of what I and it's just simply not yeah yeah yeah that part is real
so get your cruel oil in the event of you even wanting cruel oil these are my experiences
obviously joc was this wokas you take cruel oil as well indeed um get them from on it on it
dot com slash jockel if you want the 10% off also the alpha brain so the cruel oil that's like
I don't think that'll ever go away no the alpha brain I am using a lot more
I'm reading more to coincidence maybe maybe not one might be causing the other correlation may not be
causation but I'm just saying that is happening and I will admit this as far as work out
skull I'm getting real into the kettlebells you've always been into the gas yeah not always but you know
15 yeah yeah no I would say like maybe 10 years or something 12 years yeah maybe it has been
15 years yeah because I just remember that picture jolrogant I think jolrogant and I were talking
about the picture of fadore yeah yeah look that out right when you guys are yeah fadore with the
pictures that with him it all it was okay cool yeah yeah yeah so I was kind of hard to get a magnet though
yeah well yeah so I think it was jolrogant saying how like somebody introduced them to
America and that's that's what's the machine guy yeah and they're they're really good um again
being careful every single moment but I'm to the point right now where like you know you get
kind of good any gets even fun or like anything and then I'm like oh let me get that heavier one
no I want to get to heavier one but I will say this about the kettlebells about my experience I
started off the kettlebells getting these these designer ones you know primal bells on it zombie bells
probably actually didn't get the zombie I got primal and then the legend where wolf ones anyway
they're cool right cool to look at so you know who I'm kind of like who I don't know if I should
be proud of this or shame to this but I'm like the kid the you know the teenager gets their
driver's license and the two types of kids there's the one kid who the dad's like hey you got
to learn to walk before you can fly so you got to like I don't know I'll make the down payment you
make the payments that's what my dad just said or you make the down payment or whatever you know like
you got to work for this first car and it might not be the you know the BMW whatever
then there's the other kid who rolls right into the BMW you know hey good job you're 50 now big
big big time of your life time in your life whatever here's a dope car congratulations love you son
you know then there's that guy that's kind of who I am with the kettlebells you know I didn't like
pay my dues you know when the kettlebells were new and all the way to it yeah yeah yeah
the dope kettlebell where wolf yeah anyway a lot of cool stuff on there on it dot com a lot of cool
stuff on there um all legit stuff that's I think the real compelling thing for me anyway
is because I know these supplements man they're whack I've heard of people getting their
supplements and then you know the supplement was like contaminated with something and then they say
oh yeah they just mix all the supplements in the same thing and the fact it's like it can be really
whack nonetheless on it that's the good ones quality so yeah if you want 10% off on it dot com slash
juggle strong bones are going to be for your 10 it's in my experience also amazon so where do we
get these books sure we didn't do books today but we do what what 66% of the time would you say probably
some books yeah maybe more sometimes more than one book yeah last time we did three books three books
boom all on the website by the way yep so you know if you this is another support yourself
situation a lot of times people ask aid you know where which book was that again you know and they
gotta go back where you don't you go ask for me for reading list hey do you have some kind of
reading list I'm like yes I got a reading list it's on soccer podcast dot com every book that I
end and by the way are there books that are there good books that you've read that that you
haven't put on the podcast not really when I read a book and it's good it's going on the podcast yeah
if I read a book and it's lame it's not going on the podcast now there's some books that are
informational but they don't cut it for the podcast you know I wouldn't recommend them I'll tell you a
little bit a little I just realized this I had a book selected for the podcast like three weeks ago
and I got a hundred pages into it it didn't cut the mustard for the podcast yeah and I'll tell you
that one of the major reasons for those of you that recommend me books a lot one of the major
reasons that it didn't cut the mustard for the podcast is not only was it not a first person account
but it didn't even have like a lot of excerpts of first person accounts it was just factually
this is what happened this is what happened this is what happened it was very well detailed it's a good
book but it wasn't podcast because if you if you want to do that if we're just going to read facts
dates facts elements maneuvering that's that's you could just listen to the audio book right
yeah just for or just go look on Wikipedia and it's going to tell you the dates and times and
where it units maneuvered and who on the battle and how many people casualties they were right all that
stuff's in yeah we don't want just that I want to hear what the people were thinking I want to hear
they're from the human beings yep so even though there's people send me books if you're going to send
me a book look for the first person account if it's not a first person account like machete
season that's not a first person account but it it interviews the killers yeah so you're hearing the
first person accounts yeah and that reading list so that reading list is pretty pretty well
vetted that like straight up if it doesn't pass the jocco approval of recommendation it's not going
on the podcast not going on the podcast and then they're for you know no I'd rather not do a podcast
than put a lame book on the podcast not happening boom and that's the standard right there so
joccopodcast.com top menu little things says books from the podcast all of them right in a bit
later yep and what I'm kind of starting to do is like let's say you know how I like I mentioned that book
mine is called mine game just small little book I think you did you put it on there yeah
somebody somebody tweeted I didn't know you put it on there yeah so I'll put that kind of if
if you're if we mention a cool book and let's say you for what let's say it doesn't fit or you
didn't get to it or whatever but there's some sort of a for lack of a better term buzz going around
it yeah put it on there nonetheless point there is get the books from there click through there
that's a good way to support swanxian figure action and if you're just gonna just
shop for duct tape and other you know stuff that you need to do that too like do the website
double support double support yes dang still one action one big reaction you understand what I'm
saying also subscribe to the podcast on iTunes, Stature, Google Play and other podcast providing platforms
that's a good way to support of course and also YouTube some excerpts on there when yesterday today
yeah yesterday so those are even and I knew this before but those are getting more and more
in my opinion significantly valuable because even I you know I don't memorize every word of every
podcast but when I go through and I kind of look at it and you know and then you you know I listen
to it listen to the three minutes or whatever it's like a good little reminder it's like a refresher
and that's not to mention let's say if I totally forgot it you know yeah that's like all and not
to mention if you hear it and you go that reminds me of Bill he's having that issue gonna send it
over to Bill no problem shareable yep and he's gonna he's gonna probably watch it as opposed to hey
Bill here's here's the podcast I was talking about with your issue it's he's 27 minutes long get some
excuse right Bill might not listen to that quite yet he might get around to it might not not if he's in
her not if he has a busy life still might find a way anyway but they are shareable and they're
quicker so you when you click I you can listen to them there excerpts including those and
also other videos I'm gonna put on there but you know we're working on those so yeah YouTube
subscribe get some as they say also jacco as a store it's called jacco store jacco store dot com that's
the website it's an online store it's good one just did a little revamping a bit a little bit more
user friendly not that it wasn't user friendly before but you know you can I don't know I think
it's a little cleaner whatever but you know nonetheless the the shirts are still available there
if you like the shirts you like the designs get some I'm not saying just hey guys support by buying
shirts I'm not saying that not saying that at all I'm saying go to the website jacco store dot com
check them out if you like them get them support that way that's all also some try
go travel mugs on there some bumper stickers there's hoodies but should we be wearing hoodies right now
well we shouldn't hear yeah we live in California Southern California some people live in
cold places like where alaska oh yeah yeah that's true my or way yeah that's true also rash guards on
there though so is it too soon to have another rash guard it's too soon huh I don't really necessarily
think so yeah I actually think more rash guards is better is better than more the better yeah
well hey we got two out so there's you know rash guards on there as well some women stuff and um
yeah if you want to support that way get yourself a garment there's a sick rash guard
the sick rash guard for like I said I've been hanging out a little bit with a guy named Pete Roberts
from origin geese up in Maine yeah my home of record for the military by the way doing lint
and he made a he made a rash guard like a special fourth July day rash guard
and I'm gonna go ahead and say affirmative it's out of control you got to check it out it is
George Washington wearing a ghee riding a snake a giant snake the don't tread on me snake
yeah so it's I don't know if he's gonna make a lot of them but if you don't have one
I think we all should basically have one origin main dot com you can get one of those origin
origin main m a i an e origin main dot com and what you know where you know where they're made
want you guess where they're made well you figure main no you figure oh well he's if he's
he's getting a rash guard they probably made in china maybe or maybe they're made in Pakistan
maybe or maybe they're made in Taiwan but there's also a whole bunch places that make them like
Sri Lanka and Vietnam and Thailand maybe they're made there you'd be wrong on every single of those because you know
where they're made America they're made in Maine yeah so you might want to order one but do they
source like the material everything it's from me it's from America pizza crazy pizza doesn't play around
specially woven he's woven his he weaves his own material four geese to make geese with
yeah that's straight a main that's straight no that's this made the cotton comes from
South Carolina or something yeah shipped up to Maine looms you know what I mean no one will
be a fruit of the loom so it's like here and here's how I put it together ultimately so loom
it makes you know we've stuck right a little it's a basically a big weaving machine yeah I mean
this one doesn't that of course so now remember the brand fruit of the loom yeah oh I guess that's
the fruit of the loom well origin actually has their own looms once again here in Maine
in your hometown layers bro yeah anyways check those out yeah and you'll you'll be
to say you'll be fired up I'm gonna go ahead and say you will be inspired and it's funny too because the
the the rash card design the American the fourth-inch of the rash card design it's you know
things can get so over the top that they actually become cool yeah yeah that's where it's at
yeah that's where it's at like me I'm all about the subtle designs right you know oh yeah
what what should we do make a black yeah and then don't put much on it that's me he's like
took the other direction I'm gonna have a giant snake I'm gonna have George Washington with a black
belt on in an origingie I'm gonna have you know that's what I'm talking about yeah America
that's kind of like on kawai when you go to the North Shore and you can go North North North or you
can go west west west and you go too far because kawai is like a circle before you know it you're
essentially at the same place whoa yeah that yeah see oh my god yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah I first
I wasn't following you yes you do get to the same place yeah so you went he went too crazy he went
too crazy but he went so far in the world in the realm of crazy that it became dope you know because
you have like we we consider dope is like the perfect mix of crazy and understated in a current
contemporary or rebellion against yeah but he went in that one direction that you don't really
go for you know mass acceptance and then he took a two-fuck and now it's right into
the right where it needs to be. dopeness. it's like a logical warfare hey here's a question
tough question psychological warfare is this false motivation?
wait let me explain what it is because psychological warfare is an album with tracks of
jocco sane basically you know in moments of weakness on your journey whatever we can up early
sticking to the diet you know we're trying to get stuff done you know anti procrastination stuff
you can play these tracks and jocco will tell you how to get over that weakness for that moment
so the question is is that false motivation?
because you did mention that you can use the false motivation yeah well maybe you are at that point
right it is possible you just can't depend on it you can't be like hey this this is
my whole thing yeah that's a good point it's going to get you there but if you're not
disciplined yourself those tracks are going to do anything for you right yeah exactly so why
okay these might be our pretty good yeah every powerful but it was like I was saying
and then we got to make psychological warfare too I've I've got to continue gather a couple more
tracks that I'm thinking about and what people been asking for so that they can you know have a little
little spot if they need a spot psychologically spot yeah so just you know what I was thinking of
naming spiked psychological warfare too what psychological warfare too
oh hey advanced for advanced but yeah that is what it is it's a spot so just like false
motivation that can be just like a spot like you can't roll into the gym with your workout
partner and be like hey I'm gonna get under this bench it's four or five on there I want you to
do the whole thing I want you to upright row yeah that you know yeah you don't that's not what
a spot's for it's not what any of these things for it's I'm gonna do this in the unlikely event
that I run into something that might cause me to fail you got me that rest of the way that's it
so psychological warfare is too by the way but in my experience and opinion you can lean on that
pretty heavily it'll get you through it's my opinion also jocquite on amazon you can get that there
and I guess I got asked on twitter if I ever used any performance enhancing drugs no and I said
no but honestly let's just go ahead and face it um white tea is kind of the king of performance enhancement
as far as I've seen so obviously it's the only substance on the market that is guaranteed to
add 7,554 pounds to your deadlift so is that performance enhancing? probably luckily it's not
being tested for right now you know by the US DSA S P yeah them so you'd soon it's all right now you can get it
yeah get it you can just get that massive increase and everything that you do that's cool also
way the warrior kid and man so many people have been posting pictures of kids doing pull ups and
kids pulling tires and kids studying flashcards and kids making their own warrior kid codes
and memorizing the presidents and it's honestly it's awesome to see kids in their first due to
class it's so good to see so thanks everyone that is posted that and and shown what's going on
and spread in the word thank you for doing that and if you really actually want to support
this podcast don't worry about the podcast don't support the podcast don't worry about it go by this
book for some kids that you know because the feedback is just it's awesome it's awesome to see
and I can see that is absolutely impacting kids and I just couldn't be happier about that
and if you want to help don't worry about me don't worry about echoed Charles gets get this book
for some kids it's the book we should have had when we were kids get kids on the right path I guess
if you really want to support you could you could get it through Amazon right then you'd be good
you double gravitational double also this book equals freedom field manual
so many questions that I get asked are answered in the book beyond what I you know workouts
food sleep plus it's also contains the core of my belief system what keeps me going how I
overcome setbacks everything it's all in there and I'll tell you it's not a normal book this is not a
normal book in any stretch my publisher says he's never seen the book anything close to this it's
outside the box of anything I've never seen anything like it so we go we're going out on a little
limb here it's sort of like the podcast because there's not too many podcasts there's no podcasts
that's doing what we're doing is there's a live and hard one out that I know I haven't heard one
yeah meaning so it's sort of like that yeah yeah we're entering the same zone in my opinion there's
words there there's pages there yes like normal books there's patterns there there's layers there
and it comes out October 17 so order it up you can get that first batch you want the one that says
first edition right sure it's the one you want on the inside cover on that says first printing that's the one
one and also you know you know your friend that's off the path you know yes your friend
oh you grow up with this friend they're off the path get one for them it's not normal not a normal
book the one that needs discipline get a miss book also of course the tree ownership
combat leadership lessons from the battlefield to use in your business and your life wherever you're
leading whoever you're leading extreme ownership you can pick that one up also echelon front
leadership and management consulting me life babin jpdnl Dave Burke you want to get your
leadership team unified email info echelon front dot com we'll come and make it happen
and finally the monster the first monster that we did in San Diego sold out the one we did in
New York sold out the one we're doing in Austin sold out so if you wanted to come to those and you
didn't make it sorry you know but we are back in San Diego September 14th and 15th
back at the omni hotel downtown mr004 new material by the way new material but same attitude
same passion we're gonna bring it we're gonna burn it down we will see you there and until we do see
you there we'll see you on the interwebs on twitter instagram and that's Facebooky boy
hush echo is echo Charles and I am at joko willing and thanks once again for listening to
those in uniform especially those overseas thank you for being strong and brave and standing up
for what you and we believe in and also thanks to police law enforcement firefighters paramedics
and other first responders thanks for keeping us safe here at home and to everyone else out there
like first lieutenant Leonard Isaacs asked see how you can help people
ask how you can help them and clean up what's around you you never run away from something
you're afraid of and as doctor horecova told us whether you're at an operating table or a
lathe or a sewing machine or on a construction site or your child's cradle or wherever you're working
do you work skillfully honestly and happily and with your whole being
do your best in everything you do and as they both taught us remember our time here is short
so get out there and live and until next time this is echo and joko out